---
layout: post
title: "So Whatcha Want?"
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---

I've shared this advice with a couple of people in the last few days
and thought it worth writing down.

It is very easy to identify the things you **don't** want from your
job. These things tend to be obvious. You probably don't want to work
with assholes, for example. You probably wish there was less chaos,
and more order. And when you begin thinking this way, it is very easy
to start believing that the grass is greener and a job change will
solve all of your problems.

I think this is a mistake.

It is very difficult to identify the things you **do** want from your
job. These things are rarely obvious. But you have to identify those
things before you can know if 1) your current job isn't going to work
for you, and/or 2) if any particular job is going to work for you.

You have to put a fair amount of energy into thinking about the things
you want! Some things are easy. You want to get paid, of course, and
maybe you have geographic limitations. It gets trickier. Maybe you
want to work with a particular set of technologies, or programming
paradigms. Maybe you have opinions about the sort of product(s) you
are willing to work on.

Once you know what you want, then--and only then--can you know if you
are making the right decision.

Put another way, someone told me once that you should never quit your
job after you've had a bad day. If you have a good--or even a
normal--day, and you still want to leave, you know you are making the
right decision.
